what do you do to show clients the value
you're receiving this is something a lot
of investors will ask what value are
your clients getting but what value are
they getting how do I know when there's
a new executive at that company and the
person you sold to is gone how do I know
they won't just rip it out so what are
their goals and then what you ideally
want to do after that sale is bring
everyone together make sure that client
is aligned on what they need to do to
get that value from your software it's I
know it sounds so basic but a lot of
people what they do is they sell the
software they end up working with the
junior people to get it deployed the
executive lose track of it they quit
somebody else comes in and says what the
heck is this stuff and do we get any
value and people are like I don't know
what it does that's the problem many of
us in this room deal with please welcome
Nick ma CEO at gain site appreciate you
guys so excited to be here my name is
Nick Ma I'm the CEO of gain site over 12
years I've met
more than 5,000 companies talking about
how they manage their customers I've
talked to hundreds and hundreds of
investors and I've learned a lot about
where customer success fits into the
journey for a company many of you as you
build your business need to make your
customer successful because you need to
drive growth you need to you care about
your customers you want your employees
to be happy but you also want to raise
money whether you're directly raising
money or you're trying to understand the
VC World more one of things I want to
talk about main thing is how does the
data about your customers and the
understanding of your customers fit into
the process of investors thinking about
investing so I'm going to share with you
in a little fun way the 10 things that
investors will Grill you about around
customer success customer retention net
retention all those types of things
unless you're opening up one of these
crazy hot AI startups you're like most
companies which is you got to find ways
to grow raise money make your employees
happy and it's not as easy as it used to
be right SAS in 2021 saser in 21 was
just a party everyone was buying stuff
sales Cycles fundraising happened in
almost autopilot and the part's over but
I want to talk about one question that
you're to get a lot from your investors
one thing that's going to come up over
and over again whether you have a new
investors you're looking for or you have
existing investors and you have board
meetings and that thing is going to be
all about your customers how are they
helping you grow how are you helping
them it turns out to be one of the most
important things investors ask about I'm
also going to talk more generally about
how this fits with the entrepreneurial
Journey because being an entrepreneur
and some of you've done it multiple
times is a total slock right it's all
glamorized on TV and maybe some
companies have unfettered success for
most of us it's just like a Climb Every
day you're trying to get to that next
level every day you're climbing up a
mountain you're climbing up a rock face
with no ropes right it's challenging and
I can't claim to have a Panacea but
maybe some of these things will help as
you go through it I am not an investor I
say that up front now one of the things
we're going to do is try to ground this
presentation in data so I've got a lot
of data in here and these data is
powered by a free tool we created it's a
benchmarking tool and we're happy to
give you access and it basically lets
you go put in your metrics about your
business around customers so net
promoter score gross retention rate net
retention rate daily active users and
then compare it to about 700 other
companies that are in our data set and
filter on companies like you so that's
what the data is going to be based on in
this presentation so I'd love to share
is the top 10 things I think you might
get grilled on by investors by your
board Maybe by some of your employees
about your business in terms of
customers so let's get
started um All About net retention which
I'll describe gross retention early
warning indicators a lot of the best
practices in customer success but
applied to what your investors might ask
so let's click in net retention rate and
I'll say up front it's a scam so I'll
say it's a bit of a vanity metric but
the basic concept is looking at your
existing customers how much they're
spending with you let's say one year ago
how much they're spending with you now
not counting new customers right that's
the basic idea of net retention rate now
this is a chart from our benchmarking
deck and it basically lets you look at
in this case your annual curring revenue
for a company and what's the average net
retention rate for a company and you
could see here that generally speaking
as your company grows your net retention
rate will go one thing I'll show you is
net retention rates in general year-over
year have gone down because it's a
harder environment to sell and to renew
and so on now speaking that we just did
a recent survey separate survey so not
the Benchmark data and we ask people
your net retention rate this year versus
last year so this essentially the chart
looks at the x-axis is the net retention
rate the y- axis is number of percentage
of people that are in each of those
buckets and net retention rate was down
three points year-over year but this
includes a lot of big companies I've
seen a lot of startups for growth stage
companies where their net retention rate
is down 10 15 or 20 points year over
year now why is that net retention rate
is a mix I said it's a bit of a Dam
because it's mixing a lot of things
together so VY metric now the reason I
show you this chart is as you operate
your business my two cents is it's
important to break down these levers
because each of these levers has a
different solution you look at it if you
want to drive more growth in your
packages in your product probably need
more packages to sell right it's about
pricing and things like that it's about
the value prop of moving up in the
packages it's about the marketing on
those if you want to upsell
you have to do a better job
proliferating your product throughout
the organization if you're on a cross
seller you have to have more stuff to
sell churn might be for anything from a
lack of deployment to change in sponsor
down sell might be because they have
economic pressure at the customer they
want a discount so the basic idea is
each of these has a different strategy
so net retention is something people
will probably ask you about but every
Savvy investor knows how to see through
this and they will go to the second one
which is cohort level gross retention so
cohort level gross retention is the idea
that you need to look at your retention
of your existing clients but not
including any of that expansion right so
gross retention is about looking at what
people are doing with your business not
counting any additional things they add
in so 100%'s the max so it can only be
less than that it doesn't include upsell
doesn't include cross sell doesn't
include upgrades it just includes the
bad things that could happen now if you
look at it in the same Benchmark data we
have your gross retention and this is a
little bit more spotty but in general
you find roughly in SAS that SMB
oriented businesses that sell SB have
gross retention somewhere between mid
70s and mid 80s enterprise-oriented
businesses that are maybe departmental
apps are anywhere from 85 to low 90s for
systems of record CRM Erp accounting HR
might have 95 plus percent service now
has almost 100% for example so this is
overall gross renion now what's
interesting is you can compare it
year-over year again we have this great
data set to do that and we looked at
this year versus last year on average
gross attention is down one point but
again this includes a lot of big
companies with more sticky products for
smaller comp companies gross attention
is down anywhere from 5 to 10 points
year-over year that's everything from
people churning because they're
consolidating vendors or thought your
product was nice to have to people
putting price pressure and saying yes
I'll renew but I wanted 20% discount to
saying I don't need that extra package
all of that is the churn people see so
if you have seen your churn go up
year-over year you're not alone
definitely not alone it still sucks but
you're not alone now I said cohort level
gross retention right what does that
mean the traditional calculation of
gross renion is pretty simple it's one
minus looking at your turn and your
downgrades and down sell over your
starting point right so if you had
started with a million dollar and you
had $50,000 of churn full churn $50,000
of down sell that's 100,000 total out of
a million dollars you've had 10% churn
90% gross attention that's a very simple
math but what investors often want to do
is look at cohort level analysis so core
level analysis it's basically looking at
for a given let's say month or quarter
you bring customers on let's say you
bring a 100 customers on in a month or
quarter okay in that month or quarter
over the next year two years three years
how many of those customers are still
with you you brought in a 100 customers
a year later they're 90 with you the
next year they're 80 and that's looking
at just the sample size of those
customers now why does that matter
people want to see if your cohorts
meaning like your new sets of customers
are getting better or worse so that's
the second thing people look at is gross
attention so we get to question
three what are the early warning
indicators in your business if you were
talking to an investor what can you show
them to convince them these customers
will renew to show them that you have a
handle on the ones they're going to
churn what do you do to figure that out
now one way to think about this is
something called net promoter score it's
a way to assess how rabid and excited a
customer base is and the basic idea is
you ask people on a scale of 0 to 10 How
likely you are to recommend company X
gains side or whatever to a friend or
colleag you look at the tens and nines
minus the zero through six you divide
them by the total that's the metric
maximum uh Net promotor score you could
have is z 100% And and minimum is
negative 100% this is a good metric it's
good to track it also you often don't
get good response rates you also get
random people filling it out so most
people don't find this super valuable
the second thing people will do is come
up with some way to track early signs of
retention or CH so this is like our own
methodology we use it's called dear it
stands for deployment engagement
adoption and Roi so we have our own like
for our business a formula and that
correlates heavily to retention this is
a screenshot from gain site but you can
do this in Excel or whatever basically a
set of metrics that you have some belief
correlate with retention if you're a
small company you can't run like
statistically significant an analysis
and say this provably drives retention
but at a minimum you can say this is our
hypothesis you can come to the investor
and say yeah we have these four core
things we track we'll see how they go
over time but we believe these are
predictive of retention so really having
a point of view it could be by the way
you know have we met with a customer the
last 90 days that's engagement in our
terminology it could be are they using
all the licenses they have that's
deployment in our terminology it could
are they adopting all the features that
we've shipped or maybe some key features
and then Roi are it could be the value
that they've gotten but you need to have
something to stand on particularly if
you don't have a lot of renewals because
you're a new company now the other thing
that people will do is look at the
sentiment of the customer and what I
mean by that is you get all kinds of
emails and video meetings and now with
AI and stuff like that you can analyze
it and show to an investor
what's the sentiment of these customers
right running your Communications
through some llm to give the investor a
summary of what customers are saying and
how they feel about you that's a
no-brainer I would totally do
that number four what makes your
customers sticky now what do I mean by
sticky I think most of you probably
heard this term put up a fun image of my
CEO role model Michael Scott and sticky
is the idea that there's some products
that you just can't get rid of even if
you don't like them and I know that
sounds heretical I think most of us
would love to have beloved products we
also have one to have products that
people don't quit on and I'll tell you a
secret and that's not a secret anymore
there's a lot of beloved products that
people churn left right and Center
nowadays including many of the ones you
love maybe some of your products as well
so the question is what do you do to
make your business sticky and show the
investor that it is actually sticky one
thing people look at is basic usage
stats some people probably know what a
dowm ratio is daily active users so the
number of people using your product
every day divided by month monthly
active users the basic idea is if you
have people that are using it every day
and almost everyone that uses it in a
month uses it every day you have a very
sticky product if you have a product
that people use once a week once a month
once a quarter it's dangerous it's much
easier to rip
so show showing an investor some kind of
metric that shows stickiness that's an
example another example we talked about
cohorts showing cohorts for user
attention I'm sure many of you have done
use analytics products before pretty
simple concept you look at a customer
that comes in month one and the number
of users and then you look at the number
of users month after month and that will
always drop but is it dropping off a
cliff which is really scary meaning
every new customer starts using you and
then stops and the only reason you have
users is you keep adding new customers
or are you keeping customers and keeping
them active month after
month and then what you can do is then
Define what you're doing to drive that
sticky adoption so in this case like one
of the features in our product that's
very sticky is it's called Journey
orchestrator it's like an automated
Digital customer success thing we
identified that people that use your
orchestrator have a 10o higher net
retention than people that don't so we
create all these campaigns in our
customer success team to get people to
use it more so what are those things
that people use that get them totally
hooked that make them want to stay right
you think about just any consumer app
you use Tik Tok or something like that
there's something you do on Tik Tok that
causes you maybe it's watching five
minutes of videos that you want to keep
using it every single day and you can't
stop like most of us here right and
what's that thing that makes a customer
addicted to your product that's
stickiness now C investors will dig even
further right they're going to say what
are your processes what are you doing to
make this all better like what are the
core principles what you're doing as a
company to make things better for your
customers to drive adoption retention
and so on one of our people in Gat site
put this chart together a while back
which is a pretty interesting very basic
chart it just shows the customer life
cycle you sell a customer you get them
to use the product adopt you get them to
Ideal expand renew Advocate Etc but
along the way what you're doing is
moving them through a journey you know
you're onboarding them you're getting to
turn on some basic features you're
getting them to use Advanced features
you're deploying it to more users right
you're just expanding that roll up if
you can show an investor a slide that's
just like how you're approaching your
customers I think it goes a long way
it's not you don't need to automate it
you don't need a ton of processes just
like a simple concept of what you're
trying to do and to show you an example
what that looks like and this is gain s
sites but um we have these six Reasons
by people buy our products improve
retention get more efficient things like
that and then we have metrics that we
attract for our customers to measure if
they're getting value and then we have
processes to make sure these things
happen number six what do you do to show
clients the value you're receiving this
is something a lot of investors will ask
what value are your clients getting yeah
they're using your product maybe they're
staying with you maybe they're an
advocate but what value are they getting
how do I know when there's a new
executive at that company and the person
you sold to is gone how don't know they
won't just rip it
out so that's happened everywhere and so
what do you do to show your client's
value and again this doesn't have to be
rocket science very simply simple
process you're a new
customer
understanding why do they
buy maybe it's in the sales process what
are they trying to achieve maybe you
have a marketing technology you're
trying to grow more leads for them maybe
you have software that uses AI to reduce
risk maybe you're try you have a way to
measure that risk so what are their
goals and then what you ideally want to
do after that sale is bring everyone
together make sure that client is
aligned on what they need to do to get
that value from your software it's I
know it sounds so basic but a lot of
people what they do is they sell the
software they end up working with the
junior people to get it deployed the
executive lose track of it they quit
somebody else comes in and says what the
heck is this stuff and do we get any
value and people are like I don't know
what it does that's the problem many of
us in this room deal with including
gains side and so then ideally what you
do is create some kind of a plan so You'
identify their goals and their
strategies what's the plan to make it
happen let people call that a success
plan ideally you could go to your
investors and say yeah we have 20
clients live three of them have achieved
200% Roi from our solution and this will
come back when I talk about real
customer evidence this is going to be
really important when you try to prove
to investors that you you have
legitimate
customers so good seg so one of the
things that's super important to know is
who are your Advocates who are the
people they're going to pound the table
and say they can vouch for you now this
is a complex area this isn't just people
that like companies that like you right
that's absolutely not enough and so when
I look at it it's who are the massive
fans and I heard one of our another
investor I know that D work with he said
I need companies we invest in for series
a and seed to have customers that are so
passionate and will pound the table and
like literally would do anything to get
me to invest like that's the level what
you want ideally versus the like oh yeah
we use that product it's pretty cool or
yeah they're really nice people right
you don't you don't want them to say
that is the opening line you want them
to say this is really valuable the key
thing is remembering they want real
Advocates people that are actually
getting value so what are the check
what's the checklist number one they've
got to actually use the product I'm
pretty sure gain site's been listed on
the customer logo slide for a bunch of
startups and we and sometimes the
investor emails me I'm like I don't
think we've ever used that product right
and that's just that's the reality
there's a lot of people that put logos
on there that maybe there was a demo or
maybe they had a friend there people
that actually use the
product really having good adoption
right not just oh we we deployed the
product we're just getting started we're
in beta we're doing a pilot ideally like
we're actually using
it real Roi investor call might go
something like this hey we heard you use
this product X Y and Z what do you think
they're like okay great we love the
product it's awesome really nice people
and and then what Roi have you achieved
and it's like
crickets what value is that customer
going to tell the investor that you've
DED now you may need to help that
customer articulate that value you may
want to do a prep call with that
customer I would totally do this and say
hey certain investor is going to reach
out to you um I'd love to sit with you
and just hear a little bit about your
story maybe help shape like what you're
going to share so no shame in that but
make sure they don't go into that call
with no real value they can
articulate they need to be a massive fan
so on top of all that they just need to
be really excited about what you do so I
wouldn't go in with the weak reference
in fact if you investor says who are
some of your customers I can talk to if
my opinion giving them a weak reference
is worse than no reference it literally
dilutes your whole pitch process and
value and then finally I think the final
thing to have a great relationship
having a like what I call a texting
relationship with a client where you
have such a strong relationship they're
going to give you the feedback after the
VC call right away you can check in with
them to help them with data points to
share in the reference things like that
so these are the for me a checklist of
what you might consider as you think
about getting great
Advocates number eight what's the crost
structure cost structure for CS how much
are you spending on customer success we
got some great benchmarks and basically
this looks at how much you spend on
customer success divided by your ARR and
then the xaxis is the total company AR
and you can see you get more efficient
the bigger you get that's nothing to C
sophisticate about that and then we can
look at all kinds of other metrics how
does your NR correlate to how much you
spend if you spend more money do you
generate more nrr things like that
number nine what can you do to get more
efficient so some people if you have a
growth stage company especially now
nobody wants just throw good money after
bad don't have infinite capital and so
people will ask you like how much do you
spend versus how much are you managing
so how much does a CSM manage dollars
per CSM this is the average in our data
set for examp example they'll ask you
about how many accounts is a CSM
managing and then they'll ask you like
what else are you do we're big believer
that customer success is more than just
having a bunch of csms in fact if I give
you one piece of like advice from the
beginning it's don't just hire a bunch
of csfs maybe one or two it's heretical
for me to say by the way but it's true
go fix all your processes your product
make it so you can scale without a crazy
number of people and there's a diagram
we put together of all the things you
could do training programs for your
product on the right there Ina messages
build a community for your customers
make things more digital and then do CS
right do it all together but don't just
throw people at the
problem last one how do you use AI of
course being going to be asked
everywhere but I think especially as you
grow people say how are you using AI in
your customer Journey it's like a
standard checklist question nowadays
right and so we have a a framework it's
called the human first AI Playbook it's
basically how to use AI in your customer
journey and human first it's a term we
use a lot is idea how do we use AI to
help human beings help the humans in
your team help the humans at your
customer and there's a lot of detail
underneath this things like how to use
AI to eliminate surprises find early
warning make things more automated for
your team improve your customer
experience and so on so to the extent
you have at least a talk track on how
you're going to use AI it makes your
pitch that much
better and then you can go in and show
things like I'm using AI here and there
maybe an example a
prototype okay so I do have one more
thing I want to share I set a closing
thought just because I have a lot
empathy for entrepreneurs and I'm one
we're all in the same boat together so I
mentioned up front that it can be a
tough journey and obviously part of this
was what could we do in the world of
customers and all that to help in your
fundraising but more generally I think
building these companies is a climb
whether you're an executive whether
you're a Founder it doesn't really
matter it is a total climb It's a Grind
right it really is all about this like
one step after another so I thought I'd
just close with a fun story personal
story that maybe ties us all up okay so
six weeks ago I uh took my uh College
daughter to from here to uh kjara uh in
Africa and I went through this
incredible experience and also scary
I'll tell you about that which I think
is like a lot of our entrepreneurial
experiences a lot of the things that are
challenging and scary but also rewarding
at the same time and so the tldr 7-day
trip you go up S days up and down the
mountain 20,000 FT elevation it's crazy
I went in with high hopes that this
would be my first of the big Summits and
then eventually I'll do Everest I don't
know if I'm going to do Everest after
this experience but it was amazing and I
had a bunch of lessons I took away six
lessons I thought i' just share them
with you at at closing it's more of a
just entrepreneurial Journey parallel so
first one is I got to the top but I
wasn't the first one to the top we were
in a group and I wasn't the first one to
the top in fact the uh guide there's
these guides you take you out he said we
can carry your pack in the last few
thousand feet and he said no one will
ask if you car They Carried your pack
they'll just ask if you got to the top
right and I think that's a really good
lesson in life sometimes you need advice
sometimes you're not always great at
something like as an entrepreneur
founder CEO executive you're never good
at everything honestly I have some
people on my team here they could tell
you I suck at a lot of things I'm good
at like two or three things but I'm not
good at a lot of things and it's okay to
be mediocre I was not the first to the
top of the mount I thought it was going
to be I wasn't I I truly like I barely
got through this right second one is in
this particular hike it's it's you know
seven days no shower every day you wake
up early you sleep in 10 degree weather
you climb all hike all day it's it's not
like impossible but it's not easy and I
feel like this is a lot like what
Running Company or being in a startup is
nowadays it used to not be like this in
2021 now it's just a grind I feel like
if you feel like yours is a grind you're
truly like 99% of companies were all in
the exact same boat so I personally love
the grind I've been doing this thing for
12 years right literally it's like a
long time some of you weren't even
working when uh gain site was launched
but I love it I love the grind I love
just like one step step after the other
in uh Karo they use the phrase in SW
which means just like slowly one step at
a time third one I took away so I'm
somebody who like speaks at events and
whatever and the last thing I thought
I'd ever want was to be alone in fact I
was a very lonely kid so I never really
wanted that to ever happen again I was
obsessed with whether people like me
things like that but in this mountain I
met all these people that hike totally
on their own literally go somebody hiked
the Appalachian Trail which is thousands
of miles literally on their own with
nobody else and I got this experience I
was like wow I was with my daughter but
not the whole time and I was like this
is awesome being on your own and I think
sometimes that's what being a founder or
executive or employee of a startup is
like number four so this is the crazy
part of the story I got something called
hypoxia at the top of the mountain which
is not good I I if I did we talked about
NPS before I'd give Kell majara 10 on
NPS and hypoxia a zero hypoy means your
body's running out of oxygen and you're
basically going to die now thankfully
these amazing guides noticed that my
lips were turning blue I was delirious I
was falling over they took me down a few
thousand feet from the top they gave me
oxygen but that oxygen saved my life and
also reminded me how important it is for
all of us to get that refresh right
hopefully not almost dying but getting
that help every now and then is so darn
important now fun fact um if you look at
Kil majar you look you can Google The
Google imag
at the top there's all this snow and I
was talking to my daughter a few days
after we got you came down and I said so
crazy H Kar was supposed to have snow at
the top and there was no snow at the top
and she said Dad we hiked the last two
hours through snow what are you talking
about I was like okay this is what
happens when you have no oxygen in your
brain I think it's all back in my brain
although I don't know who knows you'll
never know number five I my daughter
went with her best friend me and my
daughter's best friend's dad so the four
of us and this is my daughter and best
friend on the flight back and my
daughter told me at some point on the
trip she's Dad I'm so sorry I'm not
spending the entire trip with you I'm
hanging she's hanging with a friend too
I was like that makes me so happy some
people might have kids here it makes me
so happy that you're having a great time
and I think this happens in startups
you'll have people move on from your
company and it makes you hopefully so
happy that they're going and doing their
next thing founding their next startup
and then finally I did have a lot of
bruises because of all the issues I have
this is that my actual one of my hands
coming down they're probably still scars
on it I think some of those scars are
actually underrated now F final learning
number seven is not that the bonus is my
mom who is hilarious classic immigrant
mom text my daughter when we came down
the mountain my daughter says oh yeah my
dad had a bunch of problems at the top
and my mom texts my daughter the
following oh your dad had a hard time on
the top of kill Manjaro my 70-year-old
friend had no problem with K ma what's
wrong with your dad in the words of my
mom being mediocre at least is okay keep
grinding take some time for yourself and
Solitude refill your oxygen along this
long journey be proud of what you've
done and embrace the scars thank you so
much